java, string

# String Class

> Which datatype represents text in Java?

Strings.

- use `""`, not `''`
- are not a primitive data type but a reference type
- holds a reference to an object created from the String class, not the value of the string itself
- Strings are `immutable`, constant objects, this is accomplished by having fields:
    - private
    - final
    - and not implementing any `setter` methods which would alter the state of those fields.
- Strings are `immutable`, all of the methods in the String class return a new String - the original is not modified.
- When Strings are created they are placed in a special location within the `heap` called the `String Pool`.
    - When String literals are created, if there is an existing String that matches in the String Pool, the reference variable will point to the existing value.
    - Duplicates will not exist in the String Pool. This is important because Strings take up a lot of memory. Being able to reuse the same value throughout your application is advantageous.
    - One way to circumvent the above process is to use the new keyword along with the String constructor, which will explicitly create a new String object in memory, even if one already exists in the String Pool.

## String methods:
As strings are `immutable` string methods return a new string.
- `toUpperCase()` -Converts all the characters of a string to upper case.
- `toLowerCase()`-Converts all the characters of a string to lower case
- `charAt(int index)` -This returns the indexed character of a string, where the index of the initial character is 0
- `concat(String s)` -This returns a new string consisting which has the old string + s
- `equals(String s)` -Checks if two strings are equal
- `equalsIgnoreCase(String s)` -This is like equals(), but it ignores the case(Ex: ‘Hello’ and ‘hello’ are equal)
- `length( )` -Returns the number of characters in the current string.
- `replace(char old, char new)` -This returns a new string, generated by replacing every occurrence of old with new.
- `trim()` -Returns the string that results from removing white space characters from the beginning and ending of the current string.
- `.substring(int beginningInd, int endIndex)` - end index is optional
- `.toCharArray()` - converts String to `char[]` array

### Working with Strings

- String to Integer

```java
int x = Integer.parseInt("1234");
```

- String to Array

```java
String words = "once upon";
String[] wordArray = words.split(" ");
```

> If you received text input from the user, how would you go about comparing it to a value, like "yes" or "no"?

```java
String str1 = "yes";
String str2 = "no";
boolean isSame = str1.equals(str2);
```


```java
// create
String str = "Me bob";

// length
int strLength = str.length();

// FIND char or string

// find character at index
char c = str.charAt(1);
// find index of character
int firstIndex = str.indexOf("b");
// find next occurance
int secondIndex = str.indexOf("b", firstIndex + 1);
// or find string
int strIndex = str.indexOf("bob");


// SUBSTRINGS

// get substring
String subStr = str.substring(1);
// end index excluded
String subStr1 = str.substring(1, 4);


// COMPARING STRINGS

// check for equal content
String str2 = "Me bob";
boolean sameStr = str.equals(str2);
// OR
boolean same = str.equalsIgnoreCase(str2);

// compare strings
int larger = str1.compareTo(str2)
// positive if str1 is larger
// 0 if same
// negative if str1 is smaller


// MANIPULATIONS

// manipulate strings
str.toLowerCase();
str.toUpperCase();
str.trim();
str.replace(char old, char new);

// concatenate strings
String newStr = str.concat("!");

// split string
// string to words array
String[] words = str.split(" ");
// string to char array
char[] letters = str.toCharArray();


// SORTING

// to sort a string, there are no sort method on strings
String str = "melnogn";
char[] charArray = str.toCharArray();
Arrays.sort(charArray);
String sortedString = new String(charArray);


// CONVERSIONS

// int to String
int x = 345;
String num = String.valueOf(x);
// string to int
String n = "12";
int y = Integer.parseInt(n);

```
